Flow — navigation & actions (#295)
adaptyteam/adapty-docs: src/content/docs/version-3.0/onboarding-navigation-branching.mdx

---
title: "Navigation and branching"
description: "Guide users through screens using static routes and dynamic branching."
metadataTitle: "Navigation | Flow Builder | Adapty Docs"
---

Navigation and branching lets you guide users through every step of your flow: use static routes to send everyone to core screens, and dynamic navigation to adapt the flow based on user choices.

:::link
The Flow Builder treats navigation as an action type. Learn more about actions [here](onboarding-actions).
:::

## Navigate between screens

You can configure static and dynamic navigation using different flow elements.

### Static navigation

Static navigation directs all users to the same target screen. To set it up:
1. Add and select any element users can tap — button, quiz answer, or toggle.
2. Open the **Interactions** panel on the right. There, click **Add trigger**.

   If tapping a quiz option must navigate users to a different screen right away without them tapping a button, you need to select one quiz option at this stage.

> 

Reviewer: I think I understand the meaning but I feel like we can make the structure of the sentence more linear.

I'm thinking of something like:

```suggestion
   If you want to move the user to another screen immediately after they tap a quiz option, set up interactions for each quiz option individually. That way, the transition can occur without the user confirming the choice.

```

But maybe you have a better idea. Or maybe I misunderstood what you meant by "one quiz option at this stage". I assume that in this setup, each quiz option needs to have its own interactions. But maybe you meant "only selecting one option is enough — the rest will inherit its interactions".

   <ZoomImage id="add-trigger.webp" width="500px" alt="Add trigger button" />

3. Set up the **On tap** trigger:
   - **Action**: Select **Navigate to screen**.
   - **Destination**: Choose the destination screen.

  <ZoomImage id="static-nav.webp" width="500px" alt="Static navigation" />

### Dynamic navigation

> Dynamic navigation routes users based on their quiz answers, toggle state, and custom attributes.

Reviewer: > their quiz answers, toggle state
makes it seem that the toggle state is also users'

Please correct me if I'm wrong

```suggestion
Dynamic navigation routes change based on the users' quiz answers, toggle elements' state, and the flow's custom attributes.
```

Any [selectable element](onboarding-actions#set-up-selectable-elements) can be a condition for dynamic navigation.

To set it up:
1. Add and select an element that will navigate users.
2. Open the **Interactions** panel on the right. There, click **Add trigger**.

>    If tapping a quiz option must navigate users to a different screen right away without them tapping a button, you need to select one quiz option at this stage.

Reviewer: see the comment above
